Density evolution plots.
Study of shell contribution to velocity dispersion of central particle.
Gravitational softening length has been ruled out as a possible cause of the problem: outer shell particles play an important role, and changing the softening length won't have an impact on these shells, as the particles within them are spaced out.
Possible solution: inner shells regular simulation, outer shells use theoretical potential.
Core vs cusp test. Problem still persistent with core, even though less emphasized.
Study of box size, larger box size seems to yield better results, but not by much (.6 initial density for 100 box vs .75 initial density for 500 box, after 10 Gyrs).
Possible problems to study: centering of the galaxy when plotting, study of the mass distribution and central angular momentum of halo.
In density profile plots, we can see a slight increase of relative density before it decreases, for this reason I will study the cumulative mass of the halo.
Cumulative mass of halo test, expected: a steep increase of mass as mass from the center has migrated to other shells. Results: 

Center and concatenate a 100 Gyr simulation with eps = 0.01kpc, chunks of 10 snapshots (100 Myrs per file). I will also test chunks of 50 (500 Myrs per file).
Chunks of 10 present a slight improvement (maybe due to the reduction of noise of single snapshots). Still it is not a solution to the numerical heating problem. Chunks of 50 might be too much, I suppose they will also reduce the noise (maybe even further) but the main problem will persist. As expected, noise is reduced, which is actually nice for representation, but the same problem is still persistent.






Although the outer halo contributes significantly to the gravitational potential, its contribution is spatially smooth and does not affect the local gravitational forces within the inner region. Therefore, it can be safely replaced by an analytic potential without impacting the dynamics.



After testing the truncated module (1st test), the center colapses from cusp to core (expected, erani and peñarrubia). However, does it keep getting worse? I have to extend the simulation to 100 Gyrs. I am testing with soft = 100 pc, as for some reason the module makes the simulation go significantly slower. Makint the cutoff radius larger seems to speed up the simulation A LOT. Curioso: at rcut 95 kpc, only the center behaviour changes, will extend to 100 Gyrs to see if its better. I have tried modifying the epsilon and timestep mult values, not a lot of change, main difference in speed up is the cutoff radius.

When setting an rcut for the truncated model, particles dont go through this radius, they all stay inside.

The potential profile seems to be very similar (truncated vs original) (small problem, there's a small handfull of particles at Rcut wich have weird potential). The only dif is that the truncated stops at the Rcut, since there are no more particles after that point. If Rcut is smaller that the cutoff radius of the IC, the particles that remain outside will not evolve with the system and will have a weird potential.

To know the impact of the truncated model, I first have to check if the NFW params are correct. M200 was too big, thus exerting too much of a potential, thats why no particles could exit Rcut. I have tested a lower M200 and now particles can escape, however there's a discontinuity in the potential, as these outer particles still have too much potential (they follow the NFW curve but moved to a higher potential). If we correctly match the simulated potential, there wont be discontinuity.

There was a problem: the inner particles were adding potential to the outer particles. Now this is fixed and it seems the system can expand more naturally. The potential still seems to be discontinued, which might simply be a matter of getting the NFW parameters correctly.


Promising results, I will try to plot gradient to see evolution. I still have to correctly match the NFW params, no need to run up until 100 Gyrs, with a single step we can already see. So, in paralel I will try to match the NFW params and see if it changes much. After all this, I could also do a study on the Rcut, but right now I will set it at 50 kpcs, still, preliminary tests dont show much change.
